LINK and UNLINK 
The LINK mechanism creates a temporary copy of a given database table. 
This linked file serves a number of purposes: 
 It can serve as a parameter comprised of a batch of records. 
 It can function as a work area in which data manipulation is performed 
prior to report output. Results are then sent for display in the processed 
report. 
 It is used by form load interfaces. 
The LINK command is complemented by the UNLINK command. The syntax of 
each is as follows: 
LINK table_name1 [ ID ] [ TO filename1 ]; 
{ database manipulations } 
UNLINK [ AND REMOVE ] table_name1 [ ID ];] 
The LINK command ties a designated table to a temporary file having an 
identical structure, including all the columns and keys from the original table. If 
the linked file does not yet exist, this command creates it. If it does exist, the 
command simply executes the linkage. If you specify a file name, this file can 
be used later on. 
Example: The SQLI program can create a linked file in one procedure step, 
whose contents are used in a report in the next step. For details, see Chapter 
5. 
The linked file is initially empty of data. All subsequent operations that refer to 
the original table are actually executed upon that temporary file, until the 
UNLINK command is encountered. 
You cannot link the same table more than once prior to an UNLINK. If you do, 
the second (and any subsequent) LINK to that table will return a value of  –1 (i.e., that particular query will fail, but the rest of the queries will continue to 
23 
Ver.1, Sept. 24, 2017 
Cat.No.LB17000590  
Chapter 2: SQL Syntax 
be executed). However, you can circumvent this restriction by adding a 
different suffix (table ID) to the table name for each link.  
Example: While you cannot link the ORDERS table twice, you can link both 
ORDERS A and ORDERS B. In this case, you will obtain another copy of the 
table for each link, and these may be used as separate files. Then, after 
linking, you could perform the following query: 
INSERT INTO ORDERS A 
SELECT * 
FROM ORDERS B 
WHERE ...; 
After the database manipulations are completed and the required data is 
stored in the linked file, you can simply display the results in a processed 
report, without affecting the database table. The UNLINK command stores the 
temporary file in the specified (linked) file and undoes the link. All succeeding 
operations will be performed on the original table. If the AND SET option is 
used, then the copy of the table, with all its data manipulations, will be stored 
in the original table. All operations that succeed the UNLINK command will be 
performed on the database table and not on the copy. 
Use the AND REMOVE option if you wish the linked file to be deleted when it is 
unlinked. This is necessary when working with loops, particularly when 
manipulations are carried out on the data in the linked file. If you do not 
remove the linked file, and the function using LINK and UNLINK is called more 
than once, you will receive the same copy of the table during the next link. So, 
if you want the LINK command to open a new (updated) copy of the table, use 
UNLINK AND REMOVE. 
Important! Working with a linked file can be dangerous when the link fails. If 
the query is meant to insert or update records in the linked table and the link 
fails, then everything is going to be executed on the real table! Therefore, 
you must either include an ERRMSG command for when the link fails, or use 
the GOTO command so as to skip the part of the query that uses the linked 
table.  
For example: 
SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :TMPFILE FROM DUMMY; 
LINK ORDERS TO :TMPFILE; 
ERRMSG 1 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0; 
/*database manipulation on the temporary ORDERS table */ 
UNLINK ORDERS; 
or: 
SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :TMPFILE FROM DUMMY; 
LINK ORDERS TO :TMPFILE; 
GOTO 99 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0; 
/*database manipulation on the temporary ORDERS table */ 
UNLINK ORDERS; 
LABEL 99;